MGWeek 2: Assignment 2.1: Problem Domain
Black Box: Home Weather Station
March 19, 2026
1 Raspberry Pi Weather Station
Your system of interest is a home weather station. Use the following site as a ref
erence for your weather station. https://projects.raspberrypi.org/en/projects/build
your-own-weather-station/1. You are free to enhance and modify your weather
station but it must satisfy the core purpose described by the raspberrypi site.
e.g. you can add an additional sensor, swap one sensor type for another or use
a different communication technology.
Figure 1: Raspberry Pi Weather Station
In addition to the hardware and embedded software listed above your system
must also include weather monitoring software to run a device of your choice.
e.g. smart phone, laptop, etc.
For measures of effectiveness include communication range (wifi) and weather
reading archiving.
1
2 Problem Domain Black Box
Black-Box perspective
Problem domain analysis and definition from the black-box perspective is
the first step towards specifying what the SoI shall do to fulfill the stakeholders’
expectations. The goal of this phase is to understand how the SoI interacts with
its environment to solve the given challenges. As the SoI is considered a black
box, the analysis is not concerned with its internal structure and behavior. The
analysis is performed to define the main inputs and outputs, black-box func
tions, and quantifiable characteristics of the SoI, while operating in a variety of
system contexts [PHD21].
Figure 2: MagicGrid® Black Box
Use the MagicGrid BOK as a reference.
Tasks:
1. MBSE Planning
2. Stakeholder Needs
(a) Capture information directly in the model (MG BOK Sub-Step 3)
(b) Create 5 to 10 requirements for your Weather Station
3. System Context
4. Use Cases
(a) Add item flows as object flows to scenarios (MG BOK Sub-Step 7)
2
5. Measures of Effectiveness
6. Review
Outputs:
1. Project in TWC
2. Table of stakeholder needs
3. System context diagram in BDD, IBD
4. Use cases identified in UC
5. Scenarios defined in ACTs
6. MoEs defined in BDD
7. Review captured in model
References
[PHD21] Aurelijus Morkeviˇcius PH.D. MagicGrid® BOOK OF KNOWLEDGE.
A Practical Guide to Systems Modeling using MagicGrid from Das
sault Syst`emes. VITAE LITERA, 2021. isbn: 978-609-454-554-2.